Hello everyone.
So I hope you all have went through the introduction of the project video very well and must be willing
to start making the project.
So first let me show you the working of the game and how it works, how the obstacles are handled,
how the snake is being moved and everything about the project before going to start to make it so.
Starting the project and show you how it works to make it more interesting and make you more eager to
make it.
So the project is running.
Yes.
The execution is being made and you will see a screen.
Perfect.
So now let's start to.
Read The Snake, which in the project is about.
So the dots are increasing, you can see.
Bill is being added to the snake body and.
It's such an interesting game.
No.
Yes.
The snake is getting larger and larger.
Eating the apple.
So the project is made using Java JWT and there is a frame inside which the snake is moving.
Or we can say that eating the apple he must be enjoying.
So the snake is growing.
And the project is.
So amazing.
I hope so.
You must be thinking the same.
So, yes, the snake is quite large enough, so let us see a more fact about this leg.
Suppose.
Yes.
So the snake hits the wall.
You must have seen.
So when the snake hits the wall or any obstacle, the pop up will appear, showing that the game is
over.
Like, similarly, if I run the project again and try to hit the snake itself, you will see the same
result.
Snakes oppose growing the snake first so that it can hit its own self.
So.
So, yes.
Now, let's try to hit Disney with itself.
I think it's short enough and notable.
Yes.
So that snake hits itself and the game is over again.
So there are three obstacles as the walls, the window frame and the snake itself.
So in the meantime, of feeding the snake, you must have observed, what are the game over scenes in
that game?
And what should be avoided so that the snake can grow longer?
So there is a frame.
You can see that.
And the frame has some size.
Like suppose there are 300 points this 300 point this.
Like we have a whole desktop screen.
So you have to set this frame and we cannot increase the frame.
As if we increase the frame, it will be difficult to set the game of our constraints in the programme.
So we have to set country constraints according to the size of the frame.
Like if the coordinate is going to be zero zero here, suppose this is zero zero.
So if the snake hits this point, the game will be over.
And parallel to the same line here, a few coordinates away.
If the ball is hit by snake, the game will be over again.
And after getting the idea about the working of the application, let us.
Yes.
So let us start.
Making a prototype of what is going to be done in this project, like while making this project, what
are the points we are going to cover?
So firstly.
We have to, of course, create a new Java project.
And the idea, of course.
And that can be we have to add images in the project like you have seen that the images are the main
concept behind like we have no real snake.
Of course we have images of points that are growing and Apple also is an image.
And like a PNG image we are adding to the project and then calling it again and again.
So adding images to the project is going to be the model.
When we are beginning started creating the frame should be the next concern, starting creating the
frame.
So it is the frame which decides that when the snake will die and well, when he will continue to grow
by eating the apple.
After that we have to place the images or we added the images.
First we started creating the frame and then we have to place the images inside the inside the frame.
Yes.
So suppose we have added the image, we have created the frame, we have placed the images inside the
frame now.
So this is the frame where we have added the image inside which we have to add the object which the
snake is going to it.
Now you can see that there are three dots and these three dots are three totally different images,
like we have two green dots which are same but added separately one by one and we have a head as the
red dot.
So in the meantime, we have to add dots, one behind each.
Whenever the snake eats the apple and it starts getting longer and longer.
So we have to add image like we have to place the images one behind other, one behind the other.
Yes.
So here we are.
We have created the frame and we have added the images.
We have placed the image.
Place, the major one behind.
So, yes, this is the extra part.
Now, the next motive should be location of Apple, like the apple is changing its location.
You have seen when I was playing the game once the apple was head then here and continuously changing
the position.
So we have to change the location of Apple.
We have to decide basically that what is going to be the location of the apple.
Yes.
So after fitting everything inside the frame, now we have to make the project working like every action
should contain a listener.
Which is that what after clicking this button, what this button should listen, and what action should
it perform?
So action.
Adding action listeners.
Yes, actually, listeners.
And after that we have to move towards implementing the keyboard events like the snake is handled with
the help of keyboard.
So implementation of keyboard events.
Yes.
So we have four keys overall, which is going to be used while playing this game.
So implementation of keyboard events is the important part, one of the important parts, while making
this project and afterwards, we have to handle the collision of the snake.
Like if the snake hurts itself or any of the obstacle should be handled.
So that collision of snake with Apple.
Yes, the collision with the apple is also anything like it.
Increase the size of the snake.
Of course the game is not over, but the snake grows in the size.
So this collision should also be taken into consideration.
So first collision after which we have to handle the collision of snake with self or with the walls.
So handle the collision of the snake.
With two wars or with itself.
I knitted self.
Yes.
So all the three collisions we have covered by far handling the collision with Apple.
Okay.
So this is Apple handling the collision of the snake with Apple with the wall and with itself.
Now we have to move the points inside the frame.
Like, of course we have images, not any actual thing like which is moving inside the frame.
We are just moving images inside the frame.
So after any collision, the image is moving.
So moving one point away or one point away and all these things are going to done in Java completely.
So can you imagine?
We are moving images inside the frame with the help of Java.
We have no videos.
We are moving simple dot images inside the frame.
Isn't it amazing?
So moving the snake inside the frame.
This is going to be an amazing project.
You are going to learn much, much interesting concepts after completing this.
So moving that snake inside the frame after which we are going to handle repaint the frame to discover
that changes like if the snake is all game over, hit an obstacle, or it eats the apple.
So we have to repaint this.
Like we have to change the apples position.
We have to increase the snake by one size by adding a paint to its body, and after which we are going
to add game over functionality.
So the game is over when the snake hits any of the obstacles.
So handling the game over functionality should be an important concern.
So when the game is over, should be a function and we are going to do all of this using the Java and
its libraries.
After this, completing all the required processes, we are going to run the project.
Yes, run the project and play the amazing game last night game.
So running the snake game?
Yes, of course.
Running the snake game.
Perfect.
So we have built an overall rough idea.
Basically, we have made a prototype that how we are going to design the application and how it's going
to be look after performing all of these.
So let's begin making this project step by step and learn the implementation of the libraries.
Learn the calling of the function, learn the accessing of the methods and everything involved in these
steps, one by one, without missing any single point.
Like we have to create this project from scratch.
So we are not going to miss any of this fact while making this project.
So in the next video, we are going to create a new project which is the first step in our ID like we
have to create a Java project named the Snake Ophelia or names of your choice.
It's totally upon you.
So, yes, let's get started.
So in the next video.